---
layout: fusion
title:  "Peter’s Perspective"
headline: "What's in the Numbers – 2016"
date:   2015-08-17 09:09:59
categories: fusion-ceo
---
Again this year, we received a data file which compiles information from the IRS Form 990 and 990EZ for all chapters of The Arc. We use the 990 data to report information to the Chronicle of Philanthropy for The Arc's listings in the Chronicle's Philanthropy 400 listing. We don't qualify for the Nonprofit Times 100 Top Charities because their listing is limited to charities that receive at least 10% of revenue from charitable sources, and The Arc falls below that threshold. Likewise, we don’t qualify for the Forbes list of the top 100 charities anymore because they select the largest charities based on total private donations. 

I thought you might be interested in the some of this year’s data. In the most recently completed tax returns, The Arc (national, state and local combined) reported $4.06 Billion in Total Revenue, including $2.95 Billion in Program Service Revenue, $998 million in Contributions & Grants (includes Government Grants) and $29 Million in Investment Income. 

Of the Total Contributions, Gifts and Grants, $152 Million is from individuals, foundations and corporations while $846 Million is from government. The data also illustrates that The Arc operates efficiently. Of the $4.0 Billion in Total Expenses, 89.6% is spent on Programs, 9.8% on management and administration, and 0.6% on fundraising. 

In terms of financial performance, 57% reported generating surpluses totaling $102 million; the average surplus was $334k per chapter. Unfortunately, for a substantial minority of chapters the opposite was true; 43% experienced losses totaling $39.8 million; the average loss was $171k per chapter.

Last, but not least, the data also sheds light on the people power in our network. Chapters filing the full IRS Form 990 reported having 7,134 voting Board members, 128,381 employees and 46,234 volunteers. There is certainly more work ahead to mobilize our board members, employees and volunteers to build The Arc into a stronger, more financially stable and sustainable organization. As always, you can reach me at <a href="mailto:berns@thearc.org">berns@thearc.org</a>.
