---
layout: nccjd
headline: "NCE Task Groups Open for New Members"
date:   2015-08-19 09:09:59
categories: nccjd-section1
---
<p>Welcome to NCCJD's new quarterly newsletter! Our goal is to keep you "in the know" about NCCJD activities, as well as provide powerful stories from the system, promising practices, information about upcoming events, trainings, and webinars, and a look at funding sources and current news headlines on criminal justice and disability issues.</p>

<p><b>STORY FROM THE SYSTEM</b><br>
Brian Kelmar’s son, Blake, has autism. Six years ago, a female friend of Blake’s younger brother began texting Blake and eventually she met up with Blake and performed oral sex on him. When Blake realized what was happening, he told her to stop. Blake was charged with multiple sex crimes, pled guilty, and now will be on the sexually violent offenders list for the rest of his life. Read Brian’s blog for more on Blake’s story and how it has impacted the entire Kelmar family.</p> 

<p><b>Resources</b><br>
Check out some of the materials that NCCJD has created on disability and sex offenses: 
Webinar: Sex Offenders with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities: Problems and Solutions from Around the Nation
Webinar: Sex Offenders with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) 
White Paper: Sex Offenders with Intellectual/Developmental Disabilities: A Call to Action for the Criminal Justice Community
People with Intellectual Disability and Sexual Offenses (Offenders) 
People with Intellectual Disability and Sexual Offenses (Victims) 
</p>

<p><b>In the News</b><br>
Paul Gordo’s story highlights how the criminal justice system can penalize people with I/DD due to their disability rather than looking at whether or not there is actual intent to commit a crime. Read about his case and let us know: do you think justice was served?</p>
<p>Lead filled water in Flint, Michigan may create an entire generation of people with I/DD… and could land many of them in jail. 
<p>Brendan Dassey from “Making a Murderer” is not alone in his experience of being forced into making a false confession. Just take a look at Tyler Sanchez’s story—a young adult with I/DD who would be paying a hefty price for someone else’s crime had DNA evidence not proven his innocence. </p>

<p><b>About NCCJD</b><br>
The National Center on Criminal Justice and Disability® (NCCJD) is the national focal point for the collection and dissemination of resources and serve as a bridge between justice and I/DD professionals. NCCJD pursues and promotes safety, fairness, and justice for all people with intellectual and developmental disabilities as suspects, offenders, victims, or witnesses.</p>